Streaming applications are highly dependent on data schemas.
Schemas are widely used in data streaming applications,
to codify the data being produced and received.
Because of the real-time nature of streaming applications and the
fact that these systems are consuming data from other applications,
that may not even be aware of the streaming application exists,
schemas are absolutely critical for maintaining a functioning streaming application.
Schemas allow for data producers to evolve largely
independently of a data consumers, namely streaming applications.
In many organizations, the data engineers building a streaming applications,
may not even interact with the developers building the producer applications at all.
Application developers may not be aware or
interested in the needs of the data engineering streaming applications.
Given this dynamic, both data producers and the consuming streaming applications,
must be able to evolve independently without failure.
This is critical for the organization's ability to
scale and successfully utilize stream processing technology.
Schemas provide the tool that stream processing applications
need to evolve independently of their upstream producers.
Schemas can help shield data consumers from unexpected changes in the system.
Some schema systems even provide detailed information about data compatibility to help
applications understand what they can or
cannot do with a given piece of data as it arrives.